um so these protocol discussions are
where we have uh go over caps which are
core advancement proposals these are
basically specifications for how to
update Stellar core and the Stellar
protocol in order to implement new
features and make major changes
um any cap actually goes through a
process where it's drafted it's
discussed in open on the Stellar Dev
mailing list which you can join and then
eventually it's brought to this meeting
when it's time for a synchronous
discussion all caps go through a review
process get vetted and eventually before
they're approved there there's
a pretty lengthy engagement with the the
greater Stellar ecosystem
uh finally when they are approved they
actually get bundled up into a new major
protocol release and before that
protocol release actually hits the
network goes live on the network
validators have to agree to accept that
change so there is also a validator
governance
um step that's required before the
actual turning on of a new feature on
Stellar
um So lately we have not had that many
protocol meetings and that's because
we've been I'm just gonna see if I can
invite some people up to speak um
uh and that is because uh the the Caps
that we've been working on relate to
sorobon which is the uh smart contracts
platform that we're building that will
bring smart contracts to stellar and a
lot of work has been done on the
implementation side right so earlier
this year we were talking through about
eight caps and for now we've sort of
worked on implementation of those we
have launched them on the futurenet so
if you're listening to this and you want
to experiment with saurabhan you can on
a Dev Network a Dev test Network that
exists right now
um but today we do have a discussion
that we want to have around a cap which
hit the mailing list there were some
changes that hit the mailing list
earlier uh actually I think yesterday
and so that cap is capped 46-06 smart
contract standardized asset there's a
link to the actual cap in the show notes
or in the event description so if you
want to follow this discussion which
will be technical I definitely advise
reading the cap we're going to get into
the details today
and so I is there anyone else who needs
to be brought up to the stage I guess we
can go ahead and start and we can bring
people on stage as necessary I think to
start with cap 4606
um so Darth do you want to just start
out by talking a little bit about the
cap by walking through the changes and
uh just sort of set up the discussion
for the rest of the meeting
yeah I can do that so uh this cap is
about a standardized token contract uh
on sorbon or what we call now the uh the
built-in token contract
um and you know we already have an
initial implementation of this that
people are using on feature net and this
cap has been out for a while but I'll go
over the recent changes at a high level
uh so the most significant one is that
the token balances have been updated
from
uh bigint to uh u128 uh and again these
are just updates of the cap not the
actual implementation yet
um approve the approved function was
replaced with increased allowance and
decreased allowance methods uh there are
some naming changes to make sore Bond
terminology match up with Stellar
classic like burn was uh change the
cloud back for use of the authorize
unfreeze to authorize
um we allow the admin to disable
clawback along with rules on how it's
set for wrapped assets
and then there's this wasn't explicitly
out of the cap it was in the mailing
list uh discussions around how auth
required should be handled and I had two
ideas there that we can discuss
um and it sounds like author bride is
something that we will need to handle
um yeah so does anyone have any
questions
Russians comments
yeah
it started something simple uh the
naming conventions I understand they
align with uh with Stellar classic do
they also align with
um the you know the greater kind of like
cryptocurrency ecosystem and equivalent
contracts on say
um ethereum
so the burn to clavac the uh that that
actually matches up with uh erc20 for
example just burn on the open Zeppelin
erc20
standard actually refers to a user
burning their own balance which is not
what burn does it does in the total
contract today in the sermon tone
contract that matches clawback
uh for freeze unfreeze
um
uh it
this is a question we had it was like I
I switched it to authorized the author
just because we want to be we want
clawback to be able to be used on Frozen
balances and we didn't want someone to
make the assumption that a you know a
frozen balance can change because it can
through callback
um
I believe uh on on the ethereum side
it's actually called I think it's blue
it's not possible and you unpause it uh
so it's a little different from that uh
do you have concerns over those
differences
um yeah I think the
the the blacklistable contracts that for
example uscc adheres to actually use as
a completely different language which is
uh blacklisting
um which yeah its own uh issues
yeah that's unique to usdc right that's
not even you know
like like a common erc20 implementation
uh that's a good question I haven't
looked at others
I'll uh I'll take a look at that
okay yeah I definitely think that it
makes sense to just like choose
something and then go with it uh but
maybe just like survey the ecosystem and
and make sure that there are no
standards that were
um
overlooking it doesn't look like we have
okay
um you mentioned some
um the the issue with auth required and
potential Solutions can you uh talk a
bit about
um a what the issue is uh to reiterate
that and uh what are some potential
Solutions
yeah so currently uh on solar classic if
the issuer has uh has the auth required
flag set any new trust line will be
deauthorized by default
uh and the reason for this is that you
know the issuer may want to verify the
the owner of the trust line to make sure
that you know they can go they go
through kyc and you know you go through
you pass whatever regulations that they
need to and then you enable the the
trust line and they can do what they
want uh that concept does not exist at
the moment in the built-in token
contract so if you've sent to a New
Balance uh if you send an asset that is
author card on the classic side that's
wrapped and so our body you send it to a
new balance that this new entity can
receive it and this breaks the you know
the author required semantics so the one
idea I had was that in uh in the Tome
contract
there are no balances by default in the
beginning
and they only exist once they are you
know once it's actually written uh into
a ledger entry
and uh so you can kind of you can treat
that right as
the initialization of the balance
my idea was to tie like when you do that
new like the when you create this New
Balance you check the issuer
and if it does exist then you block it
and you require the issue explicitly
proves that trust all right it's not
that trust line approves that balance or
that identifier before it's created
um there are some issues around this
related to
um how you would actually indicate that
it's authorized but this is like that's
that's the best idea I have so far the
other one is to just not allow it's just
disable add-on controls or not admin
controls on sarban contract
uh for wrapped assets that that have uh
auth required set but this makes it much
more difficult for uh author guard
assets to be used on seller I'm sorry
but I'm sorry
there's also an uh maybe an ax-like
approach in which we just don't enable
sorobond
uh like importing exporting at all to
off acquired assets
that's true but I
Jake has mentioned that uh there are
some partners that are off the choir
that want to participate in sorbon so
that wouldn't be possible in that case
uh it depend you know it depends on what
we what we want to do with those assets
are there drawbacks to the first
approach that you outlined
uh it
it adds it just adds some complexity uh
like for example how do you store this I
made this change in the cap but it
actually isn't ideal where before we had
this a flag for when things are frozen
which is not the normal case uh so
if you never freeze the balance in the
current tone contract you never write
this extra Ledger entry but that writes
a specific flag but I changed the cap to
write the authorized flag so every
balance will have a new entry that says
authorized so which is not necessary uh
by default for
non-auth required assets I have an idea
to fix this you know you can tie the
balance and this flag in a single Ledger
entry
um but it just it just adds some
complexity but I I but I think we do
need to either not allow author required
Assets in sorbon or
you know uh allow them using using a
mechanism like this
um so I I feel like if you want to allow
author required that's a story about
like this is probably the best or
something similar is the best thing we
can do it I said just to be on the same
page this means we effectively increase
the complexity of the these rap token
contracts but the standard token
contract that you can still
um you know like issue uh that's pure
sorobond does it also inherit these
complexities
um I think we can we can do it in a way
where it doesn't right like it if
because you can if you can tell that
it's a wrap token contract and in that
case then you can
uh check the issuer and check them out
the required but if if it's not a
wrapped token then you can ignore all of
this right
and from a contract developer's
perspective that wants to interact uh
from their perspective it's just the
standard like are we changing the
standard token interface
um or from their perspective it's just
another erc20 like standard token
um implementer
uh the interface shouldn't have to
change maybe the semantics around
authorization the authorization would I
think we can do it in a way where it
wouldn't it would be transparent to uh
soroban tokens
that make sense
yes
one thing I'll just say quickly is that
um
you know in today's uh today on the
network the assets that use author
required they
um there are a lot of account holders
but we are seeing organizations that are
looking to have health required assets
be used on soar bomb balls so used by a
fairly large audience so I would
I don't know if you know going forward
with an approach where
arth required assets just simply aren't
usable on sorbon is is I mean we could
do it
um but it's going to cut off some some
use cases or for organizations that
um you know from a Regulatory Compliance
perspective like need to have uh that
this requirement kyc like holders before
holding their asset
so Jake just to be on the same page like
you're saying that there is a group of
issuers that is growing and is
um author required or planning to issue
author card assets
um and out of this group there is a
non-trivial
uh
subgroup that is interested in having
their assets
um
available and and uh for like Defiance
Orban exactly yeah we have a partner
today that's looking to
um you know participate in uh like amms
and
um and other like deep iconstructs on
sorbon but the asset they would like to
to use
um they are planning on using author
required
okay one one aspect of this which I
think is a good thing but it's good to
know is if you go to the first approach
I mentioned the issuer will need to
approve any address and any any
identifier on soroban that wants to
accept the balance so even if it's like
a liquidity pool the issuer must uh you
know approve that that liquidity pool's
address in the token contract
yeah understood I think that's actually
exactly what they're looking for yeah
there are a couple questions in the live
chat too I don't know if you want to
take a look at them sit or you want me
to just read them out
let's see
so where's uh the uh
yeah I well one is oh yeah yeah
and then if you look below that there's
some there's three there's a yeah two
questions so for Quebec
sorry tomorrow do you wanna go
yep
okay uh clawback is uh
I think it's it's something we wanted to
support because it's supported on the uh
the classic side and right if you have a
an asset that is clawbackable
uh on classic and you move it over to
sorbon then you know it's a control you
want to give the issue and it can be it
can be disabled
um I I do agree that quadak versus Burns
is a little confusing we don't actually
like the cap doesn't specify a burn in
the ERC 20 cents
um and maybe it should uh right now
I think that like what you could do is
send to a zero u25519 address but maybe
that's not sufficient
um but I agree maybe we can uh I can
think about like naming differences
there a little more
um so for the
so vermouth's question for the decimals
uh
I agree so yeah the cap is actually
missed I believe it's missing decimals
for the
the non-wrapped case
um and the idea there uh was that you
know you the user could specify whatever
whatever they want but we should specify
uh a standard and I don't we haven't
discussed that yet this still depends on
the discussion that you know we moved
from big into U1 128 but I think there's
still some uh
discussions have to go on there with
what we think a default decimal should
be
um so
maybe we can start by is there anyone
that objects to u128 as the as a
standard token contract
um
uh number type
okay going gone
okay and so that's moot's next question
for the auth required Solutions when we
run into weird situations where only
Stellar accounts can participate or
other non-auth required built-in tokens
support Stellar accounts contracts and
basic 825519 keys
I
I can't think of a reason why this would
happen off the top of my head uh there's
no
difference
you know this author required mechanism
that I mentioned and a identifier that
is
is the authorized so I'm not I can't
think of uh an example like this if you
have one let me know and I can
think about that
uh what about looking at wrapped smart
contract as an on off ramp I'm not sure
uh what that what that means
okay
yeah
Lee
yeah I'm just thinking about the term
callback and and you know if that is a
problematic term I mean it's I feel like
the term is understood in other
Financial
uh ecosystems um but maybe yeah if it if
it's not a good term to be using sort of
going forward in a in a blockchain world
um
here would it be termed because do you
think if if we said that the admin could
do a transfer from one from any account
to any account like it's sort of the
same thing as clawback
um and it's sort of maybe bad to do that
because we're overloading an operation
that can suddenly do
something that might be surprising
um yeah I'm one way to like try to
eliminate that term without needing to
replace it
yeah I mean that sounds
um like a little more complex right
um it's not even the same thing because
in club in the cloud back the balance
gets burned right which is how it works
on classic and currently in the token
contract
um in your example it wouldn't get
burned right it would get sent to
another address I guess you could send
it to the zero eighty two five five one
nine key
um I I think this is something we should
discuss because to me you know clawback
already exists on Stellar right so and
it works
almost the same on sorbon so it made
sense to me to to change the name but uh
if enough people it like I think it's
something we should discuss
yeah I'm yeah I'm not I personally think
clawback's probably fine because we
already have that definition and I think
it sounds like the folks who are
planning to use
um this today already understand what it
means
um
uh sorry I have a bit of a question on a
tangent to why you just mentioned you
said that
uh so callback
what so on Stella if you transfer to the
issuer you're essentially burning
because the answer disappears because
the issue can't hold the balance of the
asset the issue um what happens if you
transfer to the admin I get the or
transferred to the issuer
um on the sorbin
ation
it doesn't get burnt it just it updates
the issue with balance like the issue or
the admin account doesn't have
any exception when it comes to like
transfers or anything like that
big other things
so
authorized trust and inheritance classic
in case you need a slower account detain
authorized flag so that that is how it
works on classic like uh you need the
trust line to to get authorized by the
issuer
um and on sorbon we would imitate the
same at the the admin or the the admin
on sorbond would need to explicitly
authorize
on sorobon we'll have we have this
method called authorize and we'll
authorize that balance
um
does that answer your question oops
okay
and I the the naming there
like maybe you need to think about that
some more about the fact that there's
you know you have you can authorize it
on classic I mean also authorize on
sorbond but server authorization doesn't
work the same like it's much simpler
than
design
could you elaborate what's the
differences just so we're all clear on
that uh yeah so you know in classic you
can uh there's a lot of different levels
of authorization uh that's what I mean
you can have uh you know fully
authorized through the authorized you
can be uh
you can authorize to maintain
liabilities right maintain offers and
liquidity pool uh deposits but you can't
do anything with your balance
and I believe there's also a flag that
says you can actually cloud back from
the
trust line uh and that flag is
maintained
currently in the proposal in soroban
like the clawback flag but it's at the
contract level and not at a balanced
level uh because my the thought process
was I don't think it needs to be at the
balance level and it would add a lot
more complexity
um but yeah those are the differences
all right any uh any other questions any
concerns
do you have the answers that you need to
move forward
I believe I do uh so before the author
choir uh solution I think I I need to
rework what I have a little bits to make
sure that the
um the non-wrap scenario doesn't doesn't
change or get any worse
um
um other than that it doesn't sound like
oh that and I need I should like naming
right looking at burnt versus clawback
in the ecosystem
uh yeah about other than those two
things I don't think there's anything
else
I need to look at
well I think there is maybe like a
symmetry uh question there right like uh
that I I was just thinking about that is
when I think of the building token
contract versus the uh more generic uh
interface right that we are exposing
that people can use when they
uh implement the the contract
isn't there like um if we have like this
auth required thing right like it
basically limits
the the the way you can
um do payments right uh from the outside
so like is
is that pointing to like a
I don't know like having um
it's basically an implicit
um uh like uh
like yeah like hook you know I know the
original cap had like this uh like
section on cooks are evil you know we
should never do that but uh at the same
time this looks like actually like a
hook to me uh that happens to be a
classic hook
uh and I'm just wondering like when we
say also that uh people that are that
are today
um looking at implementing Earth
required assets want to
move uh some of the functionality into
soroban
are they really going to be satisfied
with those limited semantics as opposed
to I know like a lot of the the things
that people were asking in the past
around programmatic you know being able
to basically control the flow of assets
was hey I want to put limits you know on
uh on transaction uh on transactions
like you know you can only move ten
thousand dollars a day or whatever right
like things like that
so yeah wondering about that uh where
does that fit in this picture
the you know the first requirement uh at
least I was that I was following is that
you you'd like to be able to support
anything that can happen on classic
uh in soroban right in the bold and tone
contract which is the you know the goal
of adding support throughout the
Acquired and clawback
um what you're saying is an interesting
idea uh adding hooks to soak admin's uh
can customize what happens uh but one
you know one concern there is
you would you would end up executing
like the the uh one of the nice things
with the built-in tone contract is built
in right it doesn't execute wasn't but
if you have these hooks they would be in
wasm right so you would you take the
performance set
um and in that case I I don't know you
could argue that
they should you should be using a
different tone contract altogether like
one that just adheres to the interface
uh do you agree on that
you mean like yeah yeah I guess like as
soon as you have hooks you can't do like
a classic payment for example because
you're bypassing the hook is that what
you're talking about
I'm I'm not sure what you mean by that
I'm saying that if you add a hook the
hook would be in wasn't right
like you've called into another contract
yeah so for the built-in yeah I guess
for like the uh default Behavior you
would yeah he would just call the
built-in token contract that would have
a default implementation right to
implement those uh what required type of
semantics but
I could see
like the need for maybe like final
control uh in general and uh
oh the Fire Control that we would
provide later on
or that like anything issuers would want
to uh yeah to have
yeah
I guess maybe those end up just being
like separate you know they are not
using the built-in token contract at
that point so that's kind of what I'm
trying to wonder I'm wondering about is
like those use cases without required
Assets in suraban
they are not people are not going to be
able to actually implement
I think the type of things that I'm
looking after that is like uh like I
said like uh people asked before the the
feature requests are on the the hooks
were things like uh maximum our
conditions on the transaction right like
uh uh not just it was not just a flag it
was basically like you know open-ended
type of conditions
and then use the built-in token contract
which may be okay but you know I then
I'm kind of questioning the
are you talking about uh from the
perspective on net new issuers or from
the perspective of existing issuers that
want to introduce
um new constraints or like new yeah
that's kind of I'm just wondering like
like the people that have like those uh
like uh as um out required assets
if they think that they can basically
over time add more conditions this is
actually not going to work
right you got it so to some extent I
hear like a question to Jake if it's
still here which is
uh you know these new issuers that are
coming on board and are interesting and
auth required uh assets maybe the
solution for them
is to actually issue a custom contract
on soroban rather than
an off-acquired acid on classic and kind
of like trying to constrain it to be
what they want it to be
yeah we we've talked about you know
something similar with like uh regulated
assets assets that need much more
defined Grant control
um and in those cases I think it makes
sense to to use a new token contract
all right the middle to the built-in
tone contract can't do everything right
and I don't think adding these I don't
think adding these hooks is a good idea
into the built-in token contract
um yeah just uh my opinion
yeah I think their position should be
that if you want these type of uh
conditions and restraints you should
definitely deploy your own
um contract that adheres to the standard
token interface you know assembly that
we're seeing in ethereum and other
ecosystems
okay so let me
um you know said I think we're we're at
a relatively good place with this with
this cap
um I do think there's a
there's like this parallel discussion
that probably hasn't matured to bringing
it up right now on
uh you know this versus like a more
discussions uh you know we we abandoned
a few months ago to make progress but we
need to go back to in terms of
um you know single balance versus two
balance approach
um but I think we need to have a better
understanding of what the
possibilities are there
uh before we can actually
make like a
um you know like the go-ahead decision
with regards to this specific uh cap
yeah I agree
anything else anyone wants to discuss or
are we done for the day
okay cool I think
we might be done
um I'm just checking the live chat to
see if there are any unanswered
questions there's one more from moods
which is in the event issuers are pushed
to write a custom token contract would
there be any core support to migrate
between a classic slash custom token
I would I would say no uh
that's an interesting question but my
intuition would be that you know you're
trying to do something that
uh
you know it isn't even supported in
classic
so it makes sense to be a separate token
uh but that's something that we need to
think about more yeah I haven't thought
much about how uh you know how these
custom
uh token contracts would work
and so this isn't and uh
responds to mooch's question on how
these uh if there would be core support
between
class and custom tokens
yeah I think this is an interesting
question because uh with the built-in
contract that we have now uh you there
is a swap essentially a swap capability
you have the import export
functions which you know allow you to
essentially swap
a token in classic with one in sorbon
and if we are if the story that we're
developing
um is that if you want to you know be
able to build
um
a custom token that provides all these
custom auth auth required type
capabilities
um I think we do need to have some sort
of story for how do you replicate that
import export how do you swap something
that's on classic with something that is
over on Sovereign so that
um because I can imagine that issuers
even if they want that more custom
capability on sarban they probably still
want to get access to things like the
things on classic like they probably
don't want to be siled into only the
sorrow and ecosystem
yeah that's a good point
and without something without some sort
of swap capability and without the
ability to
because we're not we're not going to
allow classic operations and solvent
operations to run in the same
transaction I think we're talking about
some sort of off-chain
swap capability which sort of it's not
great
yeah this is something to think about
like we you know you and I'm not sure
how this would work but you could offer
uh import export big host functions but
that
that doesn't sound like a good idea to
me
but uh
or do it off chain as like you mentioned
um yeah it's something to think about
any other thoughts
okay it looks like there's
on
one new one in the live chat from
Demetrio Stellar um why not just have
the same sort of one-to-one swap between
the rap classic asset token and the new
token
not the best ux but it's doable right
now
uh I I think you'd have I I gotta think
about this you might have issues with
like how would you do a lot like that
would have to exist as a
wait no I'm not I'm not sure how if that
would work like you would have to call
import export
uh and like and like if I write a
contract right now Custom Contract I
wouldn't be able to call that right
well I think the the issuer there would
be the contract right
um kind of uh
yeah yeah
right so you don't actually need special
anything it just uh happens that yeah
like the
that that's true you would have complete
control over it well it's yeah complete
control now because you can get the
authorized but yeah that's true
okay yeah let me let me think about this
okay it feels like we're sort of winding
down here
um so I I think we're done for the day
um thanks Sid for for putting this out
there thanks for answering the questions
thanks for thinking about it and to
everyone else
um I realized that today's protocol
discussion was sort of ad hoc and popped
out of nowhere uh next year or after
Thanksgiving as as we start to have
these meetings I'll try to be better
about just setting them up more in
advance
um and just being a little bit more
making people a little bit more aware of
what we're doing what we're talking
about so that um everyone can sort of
get a bit of context for the discussion
starts but for today
um again if you want to sort of keep up
with these discussions join the Stellar
Dev mailing list if you want to read
this particular cap it's in the cap
repository which you can find on GitHub
this is Cap 4606 the smart contract
standardized asset
and with that I will say goodbye to all
of you thanks